What Is Blockchain Technology? How Does Blockchain Work? | Built In   Skip to main content   Loading...  Blockchain.What Is Blockchain Technology? How Does Blockchain Work?  31 Blockchain Companies Paving the Way for the FutureWe've rounded up 31 interesting examples of US-based companies using blockchain.  Read Article   Why Mastercard's Blockchain Focuses on Practical Applications See More StoriesBlockchain 101Blockchain technology is most simply defined as a decentralized, distributed ledger that records the provenance of a digital asset. Our guide will walk you through what it is, how it's used and its history.  OverviewUsesHistoryOverviewBlockchain is most simply defined as a decentralized, distributed ledger technology that records the provenance of a digital asset.What is Blockchain Technology?Blockchain, sometimes referred to as Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT), makes the history of any digital asset unalterable and transparent through the use of decentralization and cryptographic hashing.  A simple analogy for understanding blockchain technology is a Google Doc. When we create a document and share it with a group of people, the document is distributed instead of copied or transferred. This creates a decentralized distribution chain that gives everyone access to the document at the same time. No one is locked out awaiting changes from another party, while all modifications to the doc are being recorded in real-time, making changes completely transparent.Of course, blockchain is more complicated than a Google Doc, but the analogy is apt because it illustrates three critical ideas of the technology:Blockchain Explained: A Quick OverviewDigital assets are distributed instead of copied or transferred.The asset is decentralized, allowing full real-time access.A transparent ledger of changes preserves integrity of the document, which creates trust in the asset.Blockchain is an especially promising and revolutionary technology because it helps reduce risk, stamps out fraud and brings transparency in a scaleable way for myriad uses.  How Does Blockchain Work?The whole point of using a blockchain is to let people — in particular, people who don't trust one another — share valuable data in a secure, tamperproof way.— MIT Technology ReviewBlockchain consists of three important concepts: blocks, nodes and miners.BlocksEvery chain consists of multiple blocks and each block has three basic elements:The data in the block.A 32-bit whole number called a nonce. The nonce is randomly generated when a block is created, which then generates a block header hash. The hash is a 256-bit number wedded to the nonce. It must start with a huge number of zeroes (i.e., be extremely small).When the first block of a chain is created, a nonce generates the cryptographic hash. The data in the block is considered signed and forever tied to the nonce and hash unless it is mined.  MinersMiners create new blocks on the chain through a process called mining.In a blockchain every block has its own unique nonce and hash, but also references the hash of the previous block in the chain, so mining a block isn't easy, especially on large chains.Miners use special software to solve the incredibly complex math problem of finding a nonce that generates an accepted hash. Because the nonce is only 32 bits and the hash is 256, there are roughly four billion possible nonce-hash combinations that must be mined before the right one is found. When that happens miners are said to have found the "golden nonce" and their block is added to the chain. Making a change to any block earlier in the chain requires re-mining not just the block with the change, but all of the blocks that come after. This is why it's extremely difficult to manipulate blockchain technology. Think of it is as "safety in math" since finding golden nonces requires an enormous amount of time and computing power.When a block is successfully mined, the change is accepted by all of the nodes on the network and the miner is rewarded financially.NodesOne of the most important concepts in blockchain technology is decentralization. No one computer or organization can own the chain. Instead, it is a distributed ledger via the nodes connected to the chain. Nodes can be any kind of electronic device that maintains copies of the blockchain and keeps the network functioning. Every node has its own copy of the blockchain and the network must algorithmically approve any newly mined block for the chain to be updated, trusted and verified. Since blockchains are transparent, every action in the ledger can be easily checked and viewed. Each participant is given a unique alphanumeric identification number that shows their transactions.Combining public information with a system of checks-and-balances helps the blockchain maintain integrity and creates trust among users. Essentially, blockchains can be thought of as the scaleability of trust via technology. Check Out the Top Companies in the Nation's Hottest Blockchain Hubs   UsesBeyond Bitcoin: Ethereum BlockchainOriginally created as the ultra-transparent ledger system for Bitcoin to operate on, blockchain has long been associated with cryptocurrency, but the technology's transparency and security has seen growing adoption in a number of areas, much of which can be traced back to the development of the Ethereum blockchain. In late 2013, Russian-Canadian developer Vitalik Buterin published a white paper that proposed a platform combining traditional blockchain functionality with one key difference: the execution of computer code. Thus, the Ethereum Project was born. Ethereum blockchain lets developers create sophisticated programs that can communicate with one another on the blockchain.TokensEthereum programmers can create tokens to represent any kind of digital asset, track its ownership and execute its functionality according to a set of programming instructions.Tokens can be music files, contracts, concert tickets or even a patient's medical records. This has broadened the potential of blockchain to permeate other sectors like media, government and identity security. Thousands of companies are currently researching and developing products and ecosystems that run entirely on the burgeoning technology.Blockchain is challenging the current status quo of innovation by letting companies experiment with groundbreaking technology like peer-to-peer energy distribution or decentralized forms for news media. Much like the definition of blockchain, the uses for the ledger system will only evolve as technology evolves.Blockchain ApplicationsBlockchain has a nearly endless amount of applications across almost every industry. The ledger technology can be applied to track fraud in finance, securely share patient medical records between healthcare professionals and even acts as a better way to track intellectual property in business and music rights for artists.HistoryHistory of BlockchainAlthough blockchain is a new technology, it already boasts a rich and interesting history. The following is a brief timeline of some of the most important and notable events in the development of blockchain. 2008Satoshi Nakamoto, a pseudonym for a person or group, publishes “Bitcoin: A Peer to Peer Electronic Cash System."2009The first successful Bitcoin (BTC) transaction occurs between computer scientist Hal Finney and the mysterious Satoshi Nakamoto.2010Florida-based programmer Laszlo Hanycez completes the first ever purchase using Bitcoin — two Papa John’s pizzas. Hanycez transferred 10,000 BTC’s, worth about $60 at the time. Today it's worth $80 million. The market cap of Bitcoin officially exceeds $1 million.20111 BTC = $1USD, giving the cryptocurrency parity with the US dollar.Electronic Frontier Foundation, Wikileaks and other organizations start accepting Bitcoin as donations.2012Blockchain and cryptocurrency are mentioned in popular television shows like The Good Wife, injecting blockchain into pop culture.Bitcoin Magazine launched by early Bitcoin developer Vitalik Buterin.2013BTC market cap surpassed $1 billion.Bitcoin reached $100/BTC for first time.Buterin publishes “Ethereum Project" paper suggesting that blockchain has other possibilities besides Bitcoin (e.g., smart contracts).2014Gaming company Zynga, The D Las Vegas Hotel and Overstock.com all start accepting Bitcoin as payment.Buterin’s Ethereum Project is crowdfunded via an Initial Coin Offering (ICO) raising over $18 million in BTC and opening up new avenues for blockchain.R3, a group of over 200 blockchain firms, is formed to discover new ways blockchain can be implemented in technology.PayPal announces Bitcoin integration.2015Number of merchants accepting BTC exceeds 100,000.NASDAQ and San-Francisco blockchain company Chain team up to test the technology for trading shares in private companies.2016Tech giant IBM announces a blockchain strategy for cloud-based business solutions.Government of Japan recognizes the legitimacy of blockchain and cryptocurrencies.2017Bitcoin reaches $1,000/BTC for first time.Cryptocurrency market cap reaches $150 billion.JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon says he believes in blockchain as a future technology, giving the ledger system a vote-of-confidence from Wall Street.Bitcoin reaches its all-time high at $19,783.21/BTC.Dubai announces its government will be blockchain-powered by 2020.2018Facebook commits to starting a blockchain group and also hints at the possibility of creating its own cryptocurrency.IBM develops a blockchain-based banking platform with large banks like Citi and Barclays signing on.More StoriesBack to Top  Building an Operating System for Democracy on Mars. (Hear Us Out.)This moonshot plan for Mars governance might not be as wild as it sounds.  Read Article   Hackers Are Breaking Into Credit Union Accounts. One Solution? Blockchain.    A Decentralized Internet? How Blockchain Domains Could Fight Online Censorship.    14 Must-Read Blockchain Books for 2020    Wallets, hospitals and the Chinese military: 19 examples of blockchain cybersecurity at work    15 examples of how blockchain is reviving healthcareBlockchain technology is helping to revive the healthcare industry.  Read Article   Buy your dream home with a blockchain mortgage: 11 companies using DLT for lending and credit    19 blockchain-as-a-service companies making the DLT more accessible    17 blockchain companies boosting the real estate industry     Nine companies using blockchain to revolutionize insurance   From stopping fake news to producing movies, the media industry is betting on blockchainBlockchain technology is becoming increasingly popular in the media world. These companies are getting in on the ground floor.  Read Article   Goodbye ATM, hello blockchain bank: 12 companies ushering the industry into the future    Bullish on blockchain: 12 companies using distributed ledger technology to transform financial trading    17 Blockchain Music Companies Reshaping a Troubled Industry    Making moves: How blockchain is quickly becoming a must-have in logistics   9 Blockchain Education Companies Earning Straight A'sBlockchain has the potential to revolutionize virtually every aspect of education.  Read Article   Blockchain and IoT: 8 examples making our future smarter    From welfare payments to law enforcement, Blockchain is tackling some of government's biggest issues    Blockchain banking: How finance is embracing technology meant to disrupt its status quo    Check yes or no: Is blockchain voting the future of elections?    Five Blockchain Companies Improving the Food IndustryCheck out 5 reasons why blockchain's versatility is helping to make the food industry safer and more efficient.  Read Article   14 ways blockchain in marketing and advertising is getting our attention    23 examples of how publicly traded companies are bullish on blockchain    Level-up: 7 blockchain companies shaping the future of gaming    Faster, cheaper, safer: 9 companies using blockchain payments    Retail revolution: 8 blockchain companies giving buyers and sellers an edgeBlockchain is shaking up the retail sector. Find out how this distributed ledger technology is giving buyers and sellers an edge.  Read Article   25 blockchain applications & real-world use cases disrupting the status quo    Funds set aside $100M for Cleveland blockchain startups    Blockchain is capturing attention from big oil    G20 Summit addresses cryptocurrency regulation   Aetna joins health care provider blockchain allianceAetna has joined the Synaptic Health Alliance to explore applications of blockchain technology in a pilot.  Read Article   Blockchain is helping refugees make financial inroads    Wharton panel discusses blockchain in developing countries    Want to pay taxes in bitcoin? Move to Ohio    Blockchain on the verge of transforming renewable energy in Africa   Blockchain in the automotive industry? Experts split on potentialExperts discussed the future of blockchain in the automotive industry during a panel at AutoMobility LA.  Read Article   All bets on blockchain, says Overstock CEO    Earn tokens for your next workout using Dallas Mavericks’ blockchain app Lympo    Swiss Railway uses blockchain to ID workers on construction sites    Christie’s breaks record for the most lucrative art sale on blockchain   Middle management facing a pink slip from blockchainThe distributed ledger technology could have ramifications on job security for those who work in middle management.  Read Article   Blockchain startup provides free genomic sequencing    Bank of America takes crypto to the enterprise with new patent    Thailand becomes first country to roll out blockchain voting for primary election    IBM files patent for research focused blockchain  Load MoreTech TrendsKeep up with techindustry trends.Grow Your CareerData ScienceBlockchainHiring ResourcesRecruitment 3.0—stay informed.Grow Your CompanyEmployer BrandingCompany CultureRecruitingGreat Companies Need Great People. That's Where We Come In.Recruit With Us   © Built In 2019 Get Involved Recruit With Built In Become an Expert Contributor Contact Us Careers Stay Connected Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Our Communities Built in Austin Built in Boston Built in Chicago Built in Colorado Built in LA Built in NYC Built in Seattle Built In San Francisco About Our Story Our Staff Writers Privacy Policy Terms of Use Copyright Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Info  Live your purpose.Work your passion.     View  jobs at top  tech companies   View Jobs     