























































What is Blockchain Technology? | IBM Blockchain  | IBM


























IBM®


Site map





IBM

















Blockchain




Products


Blockchain Platform


Food Trust


Blockchain Transparent Supply


Rapid Supplier Connect




Solutions


Supply chain


Trade finance


Financial services


Government


Insurance


Retail


Media and entertainment


Identity


More industry applications


All solutions




Services


Learn


What is blockchain?


Webinars


Use cases


Blockchain for social good


Blockchain for business


Blog


Podcasts


Hyperledger Fabric


Developer center




Explore More


Get started


Ecosystem


News and events


Blockchain resources
























What is blockchain technology?


Blockchain is a shared, immutable ledger for recording transactions, tracking assets and building trust. Discover why businesses worldwide are adopting it.



Get started with IBM Blockchain
















Blockchain success starts here


 Now in its 3rd edition, IBM’s Blockchain for Dummies has introduced blockchain to more than 68,000 readers.
What’s inside:
Grasping blockchain fundamentals
How blockchain works
Blockchain in action: use cases
Hyperledger, hosted by the Linux Foundation
Ten steps to your first blockchain application
 
 Download "Blockchain for Dummies"














What is blockchain and why is it important?

Blockchain fundamentals
Blockchain is a shared, immutable ledger that facilitates the process of recording transactions and tracking assets in a business network. An asset can be tangible (a house, a car, cash, land) or intangible (intellectual property, patents, copyrights, branding). Virtually anything of value can be tracked and traded on a blockchain network, reducing risk and cutting costs for all involved.
The need for blockchain
You can gain a deeper understanding of blockchain by exploring the context in which it was developed: the need for an efficient, cost-effective, reliable, and secure system for conducting and recording financial transactions.
The shortcomings of current transaction systems
Throughout history, instruments of trust, such as minted coins, paper money, letters of credit, and banking systems, have emerged to facilitate the exchange of value and protect buyers and sellers. Important innovations (for example, telephone lines, credit card systems, the Internet, and mobile technologies) have improved the convenience, speed, and efficiency of transactions while shrinking — and sometimes virtually eliminating — the distance between buyers and sellers. 
In spite of this, many business transactions remain inefficient, expensive, and vulnerable, suffering from the following limitations:
Cash is useful only in local transactions and in relatively small amounts.
The time between transaction and settlement can be long.
Duplication of effort and the need for third-party validation and/or the presence of intermediaries add to inefficiencies.
Fraud, cyberattacks, and even simple mistakes add to the cost and complexity of doing business, exposing all participants in the network to risk if a central system — such as a bank — is compromised.
Credit card organizations are walled gardens with a high price of entry. Merchants must pay the high costs of onboarding, which often involves considerable paperwork and a time-consuming vetting process.
Half of the world’s people don’t have access to bank accounts, requiring them to develop parallel payment systems to conduct transactions.
Limited transparency and inconsistent information hinder the efficient movement of goods in the shipping industry.
Transaction volumes worldwide are growing exponentially and will surely magnify the complexities, vulnerabilities, inefficiencies, and costs of current transaction systems. The growth of ecommerce, online banking, and in-app purchases, coupled with the increasing mobility of people around the world, have fueled the growth of transaction volumes. And transaction volumes have exploded with the rise of Internet of Things (IoT) — autonomous objects, such as refrigerators that buy groceries when supplies are running low and cars that deliver themselves to your door, stopping for fuel along the way.
To address these challenges and others, the world needs faster payment networks that provide mechanisms to establish trust, require no specialized equipment, have no chargebacks or monthly fees, and offer a collective bookkeeping solution for ensuring transparency and trust.
 Download the "Blockchain for Dummies" ebook now








  Key elements of a blockchain










Distributed ledger technology
All network participants have access to the distributed ledger and its immutable record of transactions. With this shared ledger, transactions are recorded only once, eliminating the duplication of effort that’s typical of traditional business networks.









Records are immutable
No participant can change or tamper with a transaction after it’s been recorded to the shared ledger. If a transaction record includes an error, a new transaction must be added to reverse the error, and both transactions are then visible.









Smart contracts
To speed transactions, a set of rules – called a smart contract – is stored on the blockchain and executed automatically. A smart contract can define conditions for corporate bond transfers, include terms for travel insurance to be paid and much more.










Blockchain 101 in five minutes
Understanding the basics of blockchain technology can be challenging. But our friends at IBM Food Trust™ – the blockchain network that’s building a safer, smarter food supply – make it easier with these short videos.








  ㅤㅤ ㅤㅤㅤㅤ ㅤㅤ ㅤㅤ ㅤㅤ ㅤㅤ ㅤㅤ










What is Blockchain?
Step inside the basics of blockchain technology: how blocks contain data representing anything of value, how they’re chronologically connected in an immutable chain, and the differences between blockchain and cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin.


 

Watch: Part 1 (01:24)

 











Blockchain Expanded
Learn how the decentralized nature of blockchain sets it apart from traditional record-keeping, the value of a permissioned blockchain for business transactions, and how blockchain promotes new levels of trust and transparency.


 

Watch: Part 2 (01:29)

 











A Traceable Supply Chain
The food industry is just one of many being transformed through blockchain technology. Learn how it can trace when, where and how food has been grown, picked, shipped and processed – all while protecting network-participant data.


 

Watch: Part 3 (01:34)

 











Blockchain Builds Trust
Blockchain creates trust because it represents a shared record of the truth. Data that everyone can believe in will help power other new technologies that dramatically increase efficiency, transparency and confidence.


 

Watch: Part 4 (00:57)

 











Types of blockchain networks


 There are several ways to build a blockchain network. They can be public, private, permissioned, or built by a consortium. 












Public blockchain networks
A public blockchain is one that anyone can join and participate in, such as Bitcoin. Drawbacks might include substantial computational power required, little or no privacy for transactions, and weak security. These are important considerations for enterprise use cases of blockchain.




Private blockchain networks
A private blockchain network, similar to a public blockchain network, is a decentralized peer-to-peer network, with the significant difference that one organization governs the network. That organization controls who is allowed to participate in the network, execute a consensus protocol and maintain the shared ledger. Depending on the use case, this can significantly boost trust and confidence between participants. A private blockchain can be run behind a corporate firewall and even be hosted on-premises.




Permissioned blockchain networks
Businesses who set up a private blockchain, will generally set up a permissioned blockchain network. It is important to note that public blockchain networks can also be a permissioned. This places restrictions on who is allowed to participate in the network, and only in certain transactions. Participants need to obtain an invitation or permission to join.




Consortium blockchains
Multiple organizations can share the responsibilities of maintaining a blockchain. These pre-selected organizations determine who may submit transactions or access the data. A consortium blockchain is ideal for business when all participants need to be permissioned and have a shared responsibility for the blockchain.









  See how these industries are using blockchain




















Food: Tracing fresh seafood from the moment it’s caught
IBM Food Trust is helping Raw Seafoods increase trust across the food supply chain by tracing every catch right from the water — all the way to supermarkets and restaurants.
 

Watch: Building trust in food

  Learn about IBM Food Trust™
 











Financial services: Improving cryptocurrency security
INBLOCK issues Metacoin cryptocurrency, which is based on Hyperledger fabric, to help make digital asset transactions faster, more convenient and safer.
 

Watch: Cryptocurrency security

  IBM Blockchain for Financial services
 











Healthcare: Transform outcomes with blockchain 
The IBM Blockchain Platform can change the way your ecosystem ensures trust, data provenance and efficiency to improve patient care and profitability.
  Transform healthcare outcomes (188 KB)
 











Supply chain: Fresh thinking in blockchain, AI and IoT
Learn how Golden State Foods is using the immutability of blockchain to trace goods through their supply chain and help ensure food quality.
 

Watch: Managing the supply chain

  IBM Blockchain for Supply chain
 







 Blockchain in your industry










  IBM Blockchain offerings to help make your network a success




















Build on a platform designed for today’s multicloud world
Technical innovators turn to the IBM Blockchain Platform, the leading Hyperledger Fabric platform, to build, operate, govern and grow blockchain solutions across any computing environment through Red Hat® OpenShift®.
  Learn about the IBM Blockchain Platform
 











Be part of the new era of trust in the food industry
IBM Food Trust helps growers, distributors and retailers build trust and make our food safer, by enhancing visibility and accountability in every step of the food supply. Customize with a suite of solutions that can help contribute directly to your bottom line.
  See more about IBM Food Trust™
 











Co-create with guidance from our experts
As the top-ranked blockchain services provider, IBM Blockchain Services has the expertise to help you build powerful solutions, based on the best technology. More than 1,600 blockchain experts use insights from 100+ live networks to help you build and grow.
  Begin your path to business success
 











Join an existing network for a fast start
Embracing an IBM Blockchain solution is the fastest way to blockchain success. IBM has convened networks that make onboarding easy as you join others in transforming the food supply, supply chains, trade finance, financial services, insurance, and media and advertising.
  See our fast-growing solutions
 










  Learn more with IBM Blockchain Pulse resources




















Webinars
Blockchain becomes much easier to understand when you learn about it from the experts. This is mandatory viewing for anyone who wants to understand how blockchain is changing the way the world works.


  Register to watch now
 











Newsletter
Our monthly newsletter is packed with blockchain news you can use — and could become a regular “must read” among the hundreds of news sources you have at your fingertips.


  Sign up for the newsletter
 











Blog
There’s no shortage of blockchain content online. But for more than 1 million readers, the IBM Blockchain Pulse Blog is one of the most trusted sources for blockchain thought leadership and insights.


  Read the latest posts
 











Podcasts
Grab your earbuds and fill your head with knowledge from blockchain innovators. Hear how blockchain is helping individuals take back control of identity, fight global poverty and pollution, and much more.


  Listen to Season 1
 











Go even deeper with IBM insights


 The IBM Institute for Business Value produces some of the world’s most-read blockchain thought leadership reports. Continue your blockchain education with their latest perspectives. 
 Read now









  Blockchain FAQ



What’s the difference between blockchain and bitcoin?

Bitcoin is an unregulated, digital currency. Bitcoin uses blockchain technology as its transaction ledger.
This video illustrates the distinction between the two.


Watch to learn more





How are the IBM Blockchain Platform and Hyperledger related?

The IBM Blockchain Platform is powered by Hyperledger technology.
This blockchain solution can help turn any developer into a blockchain developer.
Visit the Hyperledger web site for details.
  Learn more about Hyperledger
  Learn more about IBM Blockchain Platform
 



What are smart contracts?

Smart contracts are an integral part of blockchain technology. They automatically execute transactions and record information onto the ledger without human intervention.
Conditions of smart contracts are mutually agreed on by network members. They’re a key component for establishing trust and efficiency between parties.
Smart contracts eliminate essentially all the paperwork, streamlining the entire process and saving time and money.
To help you learn more about smart contracts, Nigel Gopie, PhD, the IBM Food Trust Global Marketing Leader - IBM Blockchain, has written a blog post that explains smart contracts in more detail.
 Read the post




How can blockchain impact an entire industry?

Blockchain enables businesses to rethink the way they work.
In the diamond industry, for example, each party can access:
High-resolution photos
Immutable payment records
Certificates of authenticity and more.



Watch to learn more





Can I deploy on any cloud I want?

IBM Blockchain Platform software is optimized to deploy on Red Hat® OpenShift®, Red Hat’s state-of-the-art enterprise Kubernetes platform.
This means you have more flexibility when choosing where to deploy your blockchain network components, whether on-premises, in public clouds, or in hybrid cloud architectures.
 Infographic: Deploy on the cloud of your choice




I need more detailed information. Where is it?

For a more detailed look at how a blockchain network operates and how you can use it, read the Introduction to distributed ledgers.
→ Learn more from the blockchain tutorial on developerWorks.

Explore the capabilities of the IBM Blockchain Platform - the only fully integrated enterprise-ready blockchain platform designed to help you accelerate the development, governance and operation of a multi-institution business network.
→ Register to download the IBM Blockchain Platform white paper.

Get the details on Hyperledger Fabric and discover what’s unique  about it, why it matters to business networks, and how to start using it.
→ Visit the Hyperledger page on developerWorks.

The quick-start guide for developers explains how to build a kick-starter blockchain network and start coding with the IBM Blockchain Platform Starter Plan.
→ View the quick start guide for developers.










What can we solve together?


 Discover how clients around the world are using IBM Blockchain to transform business now. 
 Explore industry applications















Follow us:


Follow us:



Visit us on Twitter
Visit us on LinkedIn
Visit us on blog
Visit us on YouTube





    











Contact IBM


Privacy


Terms of use


Accessibility


Cookie preferences



















